Introduction
============

jTDS is Free Software. jTDS is released under the terms of the GNU Lesser
General Public License. A copy of the LGPL is provided in the LICENSE file. The
LGPL is sufficiently flexible to allow the use of jTDS in both open source and
commercial projects.

This document has been superseded by the HTML documentation that can be found
in the html directory. However, since it still contains pertinent information
it has been left in place. If you are a first time user please read this
document and the HTML FAQ before proceeding. It's also recommended that you
also read at least part of the HTML documentation.


Thanks
======

This software is based on the FreeTDS project that can be found at
http://www.freetds.org/. Much kudos goes to the developers of that software.

Lots of thanks go to SourceForge.net, who in a big part made possible the very
existence of jTDS.


Status
======

Production, Beta.

Stable for concurrent usage (Connections, Statements and ResultSets are
completely multithread-safe). Full support is provided for both forward-only and
scrollable/updateable ResultSets, PreparedStatements, and CallableStatements.

A DataSource and a very basic ConnectionPoolDataSource implementation are also
provided.

Meta data information is 99.99% complete and accurate (both ResultSetMetaData
and DatabaseMetaData).

jTDS is used in a number of commercial applications. It has been tested with and
is actually recommended as the driver to use for MS SQL Server by pretty much
all open source AND commercial database management tools:

 o iSQL-Viewer (http://isql.sourceforge.net/)
 o SQL Workbench/J (http://www.kellerer.org/workbench/)
 o SQuirreL SQL Client (http://squirrel-sql.sourceforge.net/)
 o Db-Visualizer (http://www.minq.se/products/dbvis/index.html)
 o SQL Developer (http://sqldeveloper.solyp.com/, really nice tool).
 o Artiso Visual Case (http://www.visualcase.com/)

There are quite a few database management tools that come bundled together with
jTDS:

 o DataDino (http://www.datadino.com/)
 o DBInspect (http://www.dbinspect.com/)
 o Aqua Data Studio (http://www.aquafold.com/)
 o DB Viewer (http://victorpendleton.net/products/dbviewer.html)

For more information about jTDS check out the project's homepage
(http://jtds.sourceforge.net/).


Feature Matrix
==============

Works with both JDK 1.3 and 1.4 (although it's a JDBC 2.1 driver it implements
stubs for JDBC 3.0, some of which are actually implemented, e.g. generated keys
retrieval, the others throw exceptions).


Quick Start
===========

These are the steps you should follow to run the JUnit tests provided with jTDS
(they are also included in the jar file, along with some reverse-engineering
tools):

1. Duplicate conf/connection.properties.tmpl as conf/connection.properties.

2. Modify conf/connection.properties to point to your server/database, and put
in your username and password. All the tests use only temporary tables, so
almost any user should do (there is an exception: PerformanceTest creates a
permanent table, but it also deletes it, at least in theory).

3. Set the JAVA_HOME system property to point to your Java instalation location.

4. In a command prompt, type:

   build test

This will run a series of JUnit tests on your database. Note that some tests
(PerformanceTest) use the odbc driver to compare results, so if you are running
on another OS this test will fail. You should also expect one other test to
fail: the failure is caused by jTDS (still) using multiple phyiscal connections
to support concurrent Statements. These issue will befixed in the next release
(there is already a patch for that, it just needs some more work and a lot of
testing).


URL Format
==========

The URL format for jTDS is:

jdbc:jtds:sqlserver://<hostname>[:<port][/<dbname>][;<property>=<value>[;...]]

For Sybase replace 'sqlserver' with 'sybase'.

As for the properties, you can specify them in the URL, as shown above or by
using DriverManager.getConnection(String URL, Properties props). The most
important properties (the ones I use) are 'user', 'password','charset',
'instance', 'domain' and 'TDS'.

The last one specifies the TDS version to be used: by default TDS 7.0 is used
(the TDS 4.2 implementation has some limitations, e.g. VARCHARs are limited to
255 chars). So, if you want to use SQL Server 6.5 you will have to specify
'TDS'='4.2' (in the URL or the provided Properties).

Please see the FAQ page for a more detailed explanation of all the properties
that can be specified in the URL.


To Do
=====

1. Non-cached Blob/Clob implementation.
2. Fix outstanding minor bugs.
3. JDBC 3.0 compliance.


Contacts
========

jTDS homepage:            http://jtds.sourceforge.net/
SourceForge project info: http://sourceforge.net/projects/jtds/


License
=======

jTDS is released under the terms of the LGPL. A copy of the LGPL is provided
in the LICENSE file.

Parts of jTDS are copyright CDS Networks and/or Craig Spannring the developer
of the original FreeTDS JDBC driver from which jTDS is derived. The copyright
notice follows:

 Copyright 1998, 1999 CDS Networks, Inc., Medford Oregon

 All rights reserved.

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
    must display the following acknowledgement:
      This product includes software developed by CDS Networks, Inc.
 4. The name of CDS Networks, Inc.  may not be used to endorse or promote
    products derived from this software without specific prior
    written permission.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY CDS NETWORKS, INC. ``AS IS'' AND
 ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL CDS NETWORKS, INC. BE LIABLE
 FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 SUCH DAMAGE.
